[doc][faq] db size (#25589)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/faq/operations-faq.md

Also, the following yb-tserver configuration flag is a factor in the size of each WAL file before it is rolled into a new one:

- [`--log_segment_size_mb`](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#log-segment-size-mb) – default is `64`.

> ## How to determize the size of a YSQL database?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How do I determize the size of a YSQL database?
```

> Due to the lack of `pg_database_size` function, a custom function around `pg_table_size` needs to be used to calculate the size of the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
YugabyteDB doesn't currently support the `pg_database_size` function. Instead, use a custom function based on `pg_table_size` to calculate the size of the database.
```

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION yb_pg_database_size()
  RETURNS BIGINT
AS
$$
DECLARE
  sql_statement RECORD;
  ObjectSize BIGINT := 0;
  DataBaseSize BIGINT := 0;
BEGIN
  -- Tables
  FOR sql_statement IN
    SELECT 'SELECT pg_table_size(''' || schemaname || '.' || tablename || ''');' AS ddl FROM pg_tables WHERE schemaname NOT IN ('information_schema', 'pg_catalog')
  LOOP
    EXECUTE sql_statement.ddl INTO ObjectSize;
    DataBaseSize := DataBaseSize + ObjectSize;
  END LOOP;

  -- Indexes
  FOR sql_statement IN
  SELECT 'SELECT pg_table_size(''' || n.nspname || '.' || c.relname || ''');' AS ddl FROM pg_catalog.pg_class c LEFT JOIN pg_catalog.pg_namespace n ON n.oid = c.relnamespace LEFT JOIN pg_catalog.pg_index i ON i.indexrelid = c.oid WHERE n.nspname NOT IN ('pg_catalog', 'information_schema') AND c.relkind IN ('i','I','') AND NOT i.indisprimary
  LOOP
    EXECUTE sql_statement.ddl INTO ObjectSize;
    DataBaseSize := DataBaseSize + ObjectSize;
  END LOOP;

  RETURN DataBaseSize;

END;
$$
LANGUAGE plpgsql;
```

Now, when you run,

```sql
SELECT yb_pg_database_size() as size_bytes, yb_pg_database_size()/1048576 as size_mb;
```

> you should get something like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see output like the following:
```
